Newsletters: add 204 (2022-06-15) (#782)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2022-06-15-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #204'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2022/06/15/
name: 2022-06-15-newsletter
slug: 2022-06-15-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

- **Continued package relay BIP discussion:** a recent draft BIP for
  [package relay][topic package relay] (see [Newsletter #201][news201
  relay]) has received additional comments in the past several weeks:

    - *Policy limits:* Anthony Towns [asked][towns relay] if the
      negotiation between two peers to support package relay should
      include information about each peer's package maximum size and
      depth limits, otherwise nodes with non-default settings could

>       receive repeated notifications about packages they were did not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      receive repeated notifications about packages they did not
```

      want, wasting bandwidth.  BIP author Gloria Zhao [suggests][zhao

>       negotiation] using that the first version of the package relay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      negotiation] using the first version of the package relay
```

      inform its peers of the relationships between those two
      transactions, called the package graph.  A receiving peer can then
      request any transactions it doesn't have.  In a separate part of
      the thread, Towns [notes][towns graph] that a graph can't be
      validated until all transactions have been received, so care must
      be taken to ensure a peer can't lie about a graph in order to
      prevent a transaction from being relayed by other peers.

    - *Using short ids:* several developers suggested using
      [BIP152][]-style short identifiers (ids).  Zhao [explained][zhao
      sids] that short ids make sense for block relay where nodes first
      validate a new block's proof of work (which is expensive to
      create), so it would be expensive for an attacker to abuse the
      mechanism to waste node resources.  But, for relay where no
      significant expense is involved, short ids can be abused over and
      over again to potentially create a denial-of-service attack.

    - *Non-standard parents:* Suhas Daftuar [describes][daftuar repeat]
      a scenario where a node implementing package relay can end up

>       repeatedly requesting the same package.  This is would be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      repeatedly requesting the same package.  This would be
```

      especially likely to happen when relay policy differs between
      older and newer nodes, such as after a soft fork is activated.

    - *Challenges of a block hash beacon:* Daftuar also notes that one
      feature of the proposal may cause problems for other software.

>       The current draft BIP has packages include the node's current hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The current draft BIP has packages that include the node's current hash
```

  last week.  Topics covered included:

    - *Taproot-based LN channels:* the first step of moving LN to full
      use of [taproot's][topic taproot] features, with later steps
      likely to include support for [PTLCs][topic ptlc] (see also
      [Newsletter #164][news164 taproot ln]).

    - *Tapscript and MuSig2:* as part of the switch to taproot-based
      channels, there is a need to covert existing scripts to tapscript
      in the way that makes the most efficient use of block space.
      There's also a desire to use [MuSig2][topic musig] for creating
      signatures in all the places where both signers are expected to
      act cooperatively.  Both of these need to be implemented and
      tested to ensure they work as expected.

    - *Recursive MuSig2:* a simple implementation of MuSig2 can allow
      Alice and Bob to jointly create a single signature.  Recursive
      MuSig2 would allow, for example, Alice to create her part of the
      signature using both her hot wallet and a hardware signing
      device.  It was discussed how to design LN's use of MuSig2 to
      ensure recursive MuSig2 was available.  Also the security of

>       recursive of MuSig2 was discussed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      recursive MuSig2 was discussed.
```

Reviewer 2: I haven't heard of "recursive MuSig2" before. How is that different from other ways of constructing an aggregated public key and signatures using MuSig?

Author: Adding details.  Thanks!

      their LN node.  A challenge faced by this approach is that it
      requires communicating more routing information, so larger
      invoices are required.  That may make effective implementation of
      blinded paths dependent on newer invoice-management protocols such
      as BOLT12 offers or [LNURL][].  Several other concerns were also
      discussed.

    - *Probing and balance sharing:* using a variety of techniques, it's
      possible for a node to *probe* the balance of channels on the
      network.  Such probing is effectively free for the node performing
      the probing but it can cause problems for regular users of the
      network in addition to reducing privacy.  Mitigations for the
      separate [channel jamming attack][topic channel jamming attacks]
      may help limit probing, but it remains a concern at the present
      time, so participants discussed some quick changes to node
      settings that could make probing more difficult.

      Additionally, one previously-discussed thought experiment is to
      take the information that a probing node would learn and have
      nodes share it freely without requiring any probing.  If that was

>       done by every node, it's bandwidth requirements and loss of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      done by every node, its bandwidth requirements and loss of
```

      routing].

    - *Trampoline routing and mobile payments:*
      [trampoline routing][topic trampoline payments] allows a spender
      to outsource pathfinding to another node on the network,
      optionally in a way that maintains LN's usual privacy of
      preventing any intermediate node from learning the network
      identity of either the spender or receiver.  This outsourcing is
      especially useful for mobile LN clients who aren't attempting to
      route other node's payments.  As mentioned in the meeting summary,
      trampoline payments can be combined with *first hop payment holds*
      (see [Newsletter #171][news171 ln offline]) where a payment is
      held by a spender's direct channel peer until the receiving node
      is next online, allowing an often-offline mobile node to reliably
      receive payments from other often-offline mobile nodes.

    - *LNURL plus BOLT12:* the LNURL protocol allows a node to request a
      [BOLT11][] invoice from a webserver; the BOLT12 [offers][topic
      offers] protocol allows requesting an invoice from a node on the
      network.  Among other aspects of these protocols, participants

>       discussed how their could be made compatible with each other so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      discussed how they could be made compatible with each other so
```

      negotiation] using that the first version of the package relay
      protocol should imply a maximum package size of 25 transactions
      and 101,000 vbytes.

    - *Package graph announcement only:* Eric Voskuil
      [recommends][voskuil graph] that a peer who learns about a
      high-feerate descendant of a low-feerate ancestor should simply
      inform its peers of the relationships between those two
      transactions, called the package graph.  A receiving peer can then
      request any transactions it doesn't have.  In a separate part of
      the thread, Towns [notes][towns graph] that a graph can't be
      validated until all transactions have been received, so care must
      be taken to ensure a peer can't lie about a graph in order to
      prevent a transaction from being relayed by other peers.

    - *Using short ids:* several developers suggested using
      [BIP152][]-style short identifiers (ids).  Zhao [explained][zhao
      sids] that short ids make sense for block relay where nodes first
      validate a new block's proof of work (which is expensive to
      create), so it would be expensive for an attacker to abuse the

>       mechanism to waste node resources.  But, for relay where no
>       significant expense is involved, short ids can be abused over and

Reviewer 2: "where no significant expense is involved could perhaps be a bit more specific. How about: 

```suggestion
      mechanism to waste node resources.  But, for relay of data that is not 
      expensive to create, short ids can be abused over and
```

      older and newer nodes, such as after a soft fork is activated.

    - *Challenges of a block hash beacon:* Daftuar also notes that one
      feature of the proposal may cause problems for other software.
      The current draft BIP has packages include the node's current hash
      of the latest block on the block chain.  This allows the receiving
      peer to ignore a package if it's from an earlier block (or
      alternative chain), in which case the package may not work with
      the receiving peer's current mempool.  However, Daftuar notes that
      there's probably a lot of software that sends transactions---and
      which may eventually like to send packages---which doesn't keep
      track of the current chain tip hash.

- **Summary of LN developer meeting:** Olaoluwa Osuntokun provided a
  [detailed summary][osuntokun summary] of the LN dev meeting in Oakland
  last week.  Topics covered included:

    - *Taproot-based LN channels:* the first step of moving LN to full
      use of [taproot's][topic taproot] features, with later steps
      likely to include support for [PTLCs][topic ptlc] (see also

>       [Newsletter #164][news164 taproot ln]).

Reviewer 2: This paragraph feels incomplete. Is the first step of moving LN to Taproot taproot-based channels or is this just a setup for the next paragraphs? I assume this means using a P2TR output in the commitment transaction. Perhaps that could be clarified.

    - *Tapscript and MuSig2:* as part of the switch to taproot-based

>       channels, there is a need to covert existing scripts to tapscript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      channels, there is a need to convert existing scripts to tapscript
```

      take the information that a probing node would learn and have
      nodes share it freely without requiring any probing.  If that was
      done by every node, it's bandwidth requirements and loss of
      privacy would negate LN's key advantages---but it would also make
      routing payments much more efficient.  Nobody is proposing that
      idea, but a previous research topic was discussed of each node
      sharing with only its direct channel peers some of the information
      they could learn through probing.  It was claimed that this could
      significantly improve payment routing success, such as by
      supplementing [Just-In-Time (JIT) channel rebalancing][topic jit
      routing].

    - *Trampoline routing and mobile payments:*
      [trampoline routing][topic trampoline payments] allows a spender
      to outsource pathfinding to another node on the network,
      optionally in a way that maintains LN's usual privacy of
      preventing any intermediate node from learning the network
      identity of either the spender or receiver.  This outsourcing is
      especially useful for mobile LN clients who aren't attempting to

>       route other node's payments.  As mentioned in the meeting summary,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      route other nodes' payments.  As mentioned in the meeting summary,
```

  last week.  Topics covered included:

    - *Taproot-based LN channels:* participants discussed the first
      steps for moving LN to full use of [taproot's][topic taproot]
      features.  Later steps will likely include support for
      [PTLCs][topic ptlc] (see also
      [Newsletter #164][news164 taproot ln]).

    - *Tapscript and MuSig2:* as part of the switch to taproot-based
      channels, there is a need to convert existing scripts to tapscript
      in the way that makes the most efficient use of block space.
      There's also a desire to use [MuSig2][topic musig] for creating
      signatures in all the places where both signers are expected to
      act cooperatively.  Both of these need to be implemented and
      tested to ensure they work as expected.

    - *Recursive MuSig2:* a simple implementation of MuSig2 can allow
      Alice and Bob to jointly create a single signature.  Recursive
      MuSig2 would allow, for example, Alice to create her part of the
      signature using both her hot wallet and a hardware signing
      device without Bob performing any special steps or even knowing

>       that Alice was signinign with more than one key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      that Alice was signing with more than one key.
```
